---
title: Remember the Difference:Cross-Domain Few-Shot Semantic Segmentation via Meta-Memory Transfer
commentable: true
date: 2023-03-02
modified: false
Edit: 2023-02-16
mathjax: true
mermaid: true
tags: Few-Shot Semantic-Segmentation
categories: study paper-reading 
description: (2022CVPR)Remember the Difference:Cross-Domain Few-Shot Semantic Segmentation via Meta-Memory Transfer
status: Writing
---

original paper: [link](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/CVPR2022/html/Wang_Remember_the_Difference_Cross-Domain_Few-Shot_Semantic_Segmentation_via_Meta-Memory_Transfer_CVPR_2022_paper.html)

# Abstract 

- we propose an interesting and challenging cross-domain few-shot semantic segmentation task, where the training and test tasks perform on different domains.
- we propose  a meta-memory bank to improve the generalization of the segmentation network by bridging the domain gap between source and target domains
-  we adopt a new contrastive learning strategy to explore the knowledge of different categories during the training stage.


# Motivation

Existing approaches assume that the base training set is sampled from the same domain as the testing set.

However, this setting is not always guaranteed.

# Contribution

- We propose a novel framework to solve the cross-domain problem in few-shot semantic segmentation. Compared to the standard few-shot segmentation network, we use the most primitive feature transfer to solve the cross-domain problem and effectively broaden the use scenarios of few-shot segmentation tasks.

- We propose a plug-and-play meta-knowledge module to transfer the prior source distribution to the target do-main. Our model can effectively alleviate the influence of domain shift in few-shot segmentation with exclusive contrastive loss.

- We demonstrate the effectiveness of our framework on four different cross-domain few-shot segmentation scenarios. In particular, it can achieve state-of-the-art performance under the cross-domain setting.

# Method



# Conclusion